Update Working with Dependencies -> Declaring Repositories Section (#30525)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/dep-man/declaring-repositories/supported_repository_protocols.adoc

// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

[[supported_transport_protocols]]
= Supported Protocols

Gradle supports a variety of transport protocols for Maven and Ivy repositories.

== Supported transport protocols

These protocols determine how Gradle communicates with the repositories to resolve dependencies.

[cols="1,5,2"]
|===
| Type | Credential types | Link

| `file`
| none
|

| `http`
| username/password
| <<#sec:authentication_schemes, Documentation>>

| `https`
| username/password
| <<#sec:authentication_schemes, Documentation>>

| `sftp`
| username/password
| <<#sec:authentication_schemes, Documentation>>

| `s3`
| access key/secret key/session token or Environment variables
| <<#sec:s3-repositories,Documentation>>

| `gcs`
| https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/application-default-credentials[default application credentials] sourced from well known files, Environment variables etc.
| <<#sec:gcs-repositories,Documentation>>
|===

> NOTE: Username and password should never be stored in plain text in your build files. Instead, store credentials in a local `gradle.properties` file or use an open-source Gradle plugin for encrypting and consuming credentials, such as the link:https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/nu.studer.credentials[credentials plugin].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Usernames and passwords should never be stored in plain text in your build files. Instead, store credentials in a local `gradle.properties` file or use an open-source Gradle plugin for encrypting and consuming credentials, such as the link:https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/nu.studer.credentials[credentials plugin].
```

Author: Done.

====

[[sec:s3-repositories]]
=== AWS S3 repositories configuration

When configuring a repository that uses AWS S3, several options and settings are available.

[[sub:s3_configuration_properties]]
==== S3 configuration properties

The following system properties can be used to configure interactions with S3 repositories:

`org.gradle.s3.endpoint`::
Overrides the AWS S3 endpoint when using a non-AWS, S3 API-compatible storage service.

`org.gradle.s3.maxErrorRetry`::
Specifies the maximum number of retry attempts when the S3 server responds with an HTTP 5xx status code. The default value is 3 if not specified.

[[sub:s3_url_formats]]
==== S3 URL formats

S3 URLs must use the 'virtual-hosted-style' format:

[source,text]
----
s3://<bucketName>[.<regionSpecificEndpoint>]/<s3Key>
----

*Example*: `s3://myBucket.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/maven/release`

- `myBucket`: The AWS S3 bucket name.
- `s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com`: The optional region-specific endpoint.
- `/maven/release`: The AWS S3 key (a unique identifier for an object within a bucket).

[[sub:s3_proxy_settings]]
==== S3 proxy settings

> A proxy for S3 can be configured using the following system properties:

Reviewer: It looks like a lot of this information is coming from `declaring_repositories_adv`. 

Should we be deleting the original content in this PR now to avoid duplication?

Author: I will have a separate PR for this, as some content has been moved to other PRs (not just this one). This ensures that content is not lost between releases if the other PRs aren't merged.
